In this video, we're going
to look at how we can
customize and work
with tables in Excel.
In the previous video,
we helped Zara
create this table.
But she doesn't actually
want the blue stripes,
and manually changing it
could take a lot of time.
Fortunately, working with tables,
it's really straightforward.
We are going to
click somewhere into
our table and in the ribbon,
the "Table Design"
ribbon comes up.
So I'm going to click on that.
On the far right, we see a
gallery of table designs.
If you hover over that gallery,
you will see a live preview.
So we haven't
actually selected it,
we've just hovered to
get even more options.
We click the "More" button,
which is the drop-down on
the far right-hand corner,
and there's quite a
lot to choose from.
So take a moment to hover
over the different options,
and find one you like
and click to select.
I'm going to go for blue
table style medium 16.
So we can see how
quick it is to make
a massive change to the
formatting in a workbook.
But there's even more we can do,
using the "Table Styles Options"
to the left of the table styles.
Let's say we didn't want the
alternating colored rows.
Excel calls these banded rows,
and we can simply select it.
We could instead turn on banded
columns for alternating
colored columns.
We can also make our
first column standout.
This will vary depending on
which style you've chosen.
But very often, that has
the main or unique
identifier for that row,
so that's quite useful,
and you can make your last
column stand out as well,
which is great if
you've got a subtotal.
In this case, we don't want it,
so we're going to unselect it.
But the best option in this
group is the total row.
Can you find the
total row check box
and just put a little tick in it?
What that has done is add
a total row at the
bottom of our data,
and some of the furthest right
numeric column, which is great.
So I've got my total late charge,
but actually I'd really like
my total invoice amount.
So we're going to click into
the total row under
the Amount column,
and we're going to
click the drop-down,
and we're going to choose sum,
and sum isn't the only
function we can use.
So let's say we
actually wanted to
see an average late charge.
If I come to my drop-down,
I could choose an average.
If I wanted to count
how many rows there
were in the table,
it doesn't really matter
which column I choose,
I'm going to go for
payment number,
click the drop-down,
and choose count.
What's really great about
the total row is when
we need to add new data to
the bottom of the table,
we just turn it off,
pop on your data in,
and then we turn it back on.
It will appear
underneath the new data,
and include those new values,
so making it much easier
to work with our data.
Another feature you may not have
noticed is we are down at row 89,
and yet when I said click in
the Payment Number
or the Due Date,
you have no problem
identifying the column.
What we would normally
see if I click
out of the table is
the column letters.
But because we've got a table,
we actually get the
column headings,
so another great little feature.
Let's go back up to
the top of our table,
so I'm going to use
the keyboard shortcut
"Control + Up Arrow".
Another feature the
table offers us is
the ability to more easily
select the data within the table.
So up to now when we need
to select a column of data,
we've been doing "Control +
S1hift + Down Arrow".
But within the table,
you don't need to.
So let's say I want to select
the column, Purchase
Order Number,
I'm not going to click into the H
because that will select
the whole worksheet column,
and I just want the table column.
So I'm going to come to
just on that Purchase
Order Number,
and I get a tiny black arrow,
and when I single-click,
it selects all the data.
If I click again, it
includes the heading.
If I now wanted to
change my table and move
the purchase order column to
before the bank details column,
it's much easier than
with the normal range.
Having selected the
purchase order column,
all I need to do is
come to the edge,
and sure I've got the
four arrow move icon and
drag and drop it in before
the bank details column.
I have now swapped the
columns without the need for
copy paste and without impacting
the rest of my workbook.
When it comes to
selecting table rows,
is just as easy.
So for example, if
I wanted to delete
a few table rows and
I didn't want to
impact anything to the
right of my table,
I come just into the table,
and again, get that
small black arrow.
One click selects
just one table row,
and if I click and drag,
I can select multiple table rows.
So we've seen how we
can use our styles on
the Table Design ribbon
to format our table,
and we can customize
those formats using our
table style options.
Then we saw how we could
more easily select data,
and maybe move columns or delete
rows by selecting either at
the top of the table column,
or to the left of the table row.
In the next video,
we'll have a look at
how easy it is to
sort and filter data in a table.